[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hello, and welcome to this
new series with Gaia of 13
programs in which I'm
basically going to chat.
Chat about the last
30 years of compiling
extraordinary information
across a vast range of subjects.
And I'm going to connect
those subjects in this series,
and that is so, so important.
What we lack almost all
the time is context.
You see a world event,
you see it happening,
you see something that
happens in your life.
And we tend to look at these
things as in and of themselves.
And so we try to get
clarity about them
by just looking at them alone.
But what I've learned
over the last 30 years
over and over again is
that the real truth,
the real understanding comes
when you connect the dots,
you connect the events.
And when you put
an individual event
in context of its connections
to many others, then
suddenly that event starts
to look very, very different
than it did when you just
looked at it in and of itself.
And so in terms of my
life, the relationship
between the perceived
normal, what
I would call the
human normal, this
is the normal that is nothing
more than a construct.
It's taught in schools
and universities.
It's what the mainstream
media pound out 24/7.
It's what you get through
mainstream science
and mainstream medicine
and mainstream academia.
And basically, it is a
version of life, reality--
everything that has
been constructed.
But because it's
now termed normal,
people tend to believe that
anything outside of that
must therefore not be normal.
And you have to give events--
happenings that
can't be explained
by human normal another tag
name called the paranormal.
Well, as my life
experience has shown me,
the paranormal is the
normal and the human normal
is the illusion.
So in just going through
some main points in my life
here in this first program,
you'll perhaps see how--
while we trot through
life apparently
within the bounds of human
normal, the paranormal--
the real normal-- is actually
interacting and intercepting
with events all the time.
I was born in a place called
Leicester in the English
Midlands, and I was born into
what they call in Britain
a working class background.
And so I went through
school and just got by.
I wasn't academically terribly
bright because I really
wasn't bothered.
But what I thought
my life was about
was to be a
professional footballer.
That was my ambition as a kid.
And I would say
this to anyone who
maybe comes from
a background that
just doesn't have
a lot of money,
doesn't have a lot of
apparent opportunity--
don't you think for a
second that you cannot have
an extraordinary
life, because you can.
Because, as we'll
explore in this series,
you are really the
one in control of it,
and taking back that control
is what freedom really means.
So I had this ambition to be a
professional footballer, which
drove me through my
childhood, and a series
of synchronous stick bits
a lock allowed me to be
a professional footballer.
But in the first few years--
I'm still a teenager, I got--
rheumatoid arthritis
came out of nowhere
and my career ended at 21.
And then I went on to be
a journalist, a newspaper
journalist and a
radio journalist,
and then I became a national
television presenter
for the BBC out of
London in sport and news.
And you think then, well, OK,
well this is my life, then.
I'm going to be in the media.
But then my life said hello
and welcome to the paranormal,
and it entered my life
in an extraordinary way.
I also, by the way, became
a national spokesman
for the British
Green Party, and I
went from joining the
party as a local member
to being a national
spokesman within weeks.
During 1989, while I was
working for the Green Party
and working for the BBC,
I had this feeling--
and it got more
and more tangible--
that when I was in a room
alone, I wasn't alone.
It was like there
was something there,
there was a presence there.
And I wasn't into
any of this stuff.
I've never met a psychic--
and I was open to it,
I didn't dismiss it,
but I just never got into it.
So I'm bemused, because I'm
feeling this presence more
and more powerfully.
And then as 1989
became 1990, I suddenly
had this extraordinary
experience
which launched me on a
road that led to this seat
now as I'm talking to you.
I was with my son
in a place called
Ryde where I live on a place
called the Isle of Wight
at the South Coast
of England, and we
were going to have some
lunch, my son Gareth.
Big strapping singer/songwriter
now, little boy then.
And so we went to this cafe
area near a railway station,
and a railway worker
came out and started
talking to me about sport cause
he knew me off the television.
And then when that
conversation was finished,
I realized that
Gareth was not there,
but I knew where he would be.
He'll be in the news shop,
little newspaper shop
next to the station.
So I went in there, he was.
So I'm standing at the door,
and the atmosphere changed,
that's all I can say.
The atmosphere
around me changed.
Now what I now realized was
happening with the greater
understanding of the
passage of experience
is that what I was
experiencing was
an electromagnetic
field of some kind
had just basically engulfed me.
And then my feet began to burn.
It was like two magnets were
pulling the feet to the ground,
and I couldn't move my feet.
And then I heard--
it wasn't a voice, it was
like a very strong thoughtful
which said, go and
look at the books
on the far side, which just
passed through my mind.
And I'm standing
there bewildered
trying to work out
what's happening to me,
and I, in a daze, trotted
over towards these books.
Now I knew this
newsagent shop very well.
The books it sold
were romantic novels,
you know perfectly formed
English roses, big macho
soldiers, that kind of stuff.
But there in the middle of
all these romantic novels
was one book, and it had a
woman's face on the front,
and it was called
"Mind to Mind,"
and it was written by a
lady called Betty Shine.
So I turned it over--
I picked it up because
it was so different.
I picked it up and I read
the blurb on the back,
and then I saw this word--
psychic.
It was a biography--
autobiography by Betty Shine
about her life as a psychic
so immediately I
saw it, I thought,
I wonder if this
lady would pick up
what I've been
feeling all around me
for the last year,
this presence.
So I wrote to her
and went to see her,
but I didn't tell her anything.
I said, I've got arthritis,
maybe your hands-on healing,
which she also did, might help.
Didn't tell her anything,
didn't want to give her
any inkling, so I went along.
I went along a couple of times,
had the hands-on healing,
we had a nice chat, and I
found it all very fascinating,
it's all new to me.
And then I went the third time.
And I'm lying on her--
like a medical-type
bench in her front room,
and she's doing the hands-on
healing on me left knee,
just off of me left knee.
And suddenly I felt like
a spider's web on my face.
And this really hit me,
cause I read in her book
that when other
levels of reality
are trying to lock
in to you, you
feel like a spider's
web on your face.
Now clearly again,
with the hindsight
of experience,
what I was feeling
was an electromagnetic
field, which
is what is used to make
this communicative contact
between dimensions,
between frequencies.
And it's the same
phenomena that when
you're in a crowd
of excited people,
people say their hairs on the
back of my neck are stood up.
That's an electromagnetic
field effect.
So anyway, I said
nothing to Betty Shine
about the spider's web, but
10 to 15 seconds later, she
launches her head back and she
said, my God, this is powerful,
I've got to close me
eyes for this one.
And my backside's slipping
down the bench, I'm thinking,
Icke, what'd you get into here?
What's all this?
And then here I am,
lying on this bench,
I'm a national spokesman
for the British Green Party,
I'm a national television
presenter with the BBC,
and this lady starts telling
me that a presence that she
can see in her mind was
telling her to tell me
that I was going to go
out on a world stage
and I was going to
reveal great secrets.
One line that came out was, one
man cannot change the world,
but one man can communicate
the message that can change
the world.
And that information would
be put directly into my mind
and at other times I
would be led to knowledge.
And of course part
of me's kind of lying
there thinking, what the?
You know.
But something here was saying go
with it, go with it, and I did.
And what happened
after I left her house
that day is that my life
became this incredibly
synchronistic journey of
walking into information.
It came in the form of
reading the right books,
coming across documents,
personal experiences,
synchronicity mystically,
again, meeting
people who gave me information.
And it was like
and has been ever
since some force has been
handing me puzzle pieces
in a jigsaw puzzle.
I left the BBC, or it
left me, and I suddenly
was going full-time into
this whole arena of following
this impulse that started off
in Betty Shine's front room.
And I wrote a book called
"Truth Vibrations" in 1990
about what was happening
to me, not that I really
understood at that time.
And then towards
the end of 1990,
out of nowhere, I
got this feeling--
go to Peru.
I walk down the
street and I look over
and I catch a travel
agent's window,
and it would be go to Peru.
I'd put the
television on, there'd
be a documentary about Peru.
Anyway, I thought
I'm going with it,
because my intuition,
something here was telling
me to go with this, go with it.
This was saying, ooh, not so
sure, but I went with this.
So I end up getting
on a plane to Peru,
amazing things happen
in Peru over a period
of three weeks, which culminated
in a real life-changing
paranormal event for me, which
happened at a place called
Sillustani, which is an
old Inca site not far
from the shores of Lake
Titicaca, the highest navigable
lake in the world.
So we went out there, and
I went around this site,
it was beautiful.
Distant mountains, a lake,
beautiful countryside.
But after I'd been
around, the feeling I had,
the urge I had to go there was
not matched by the experience.
So I was quite disappointed,
getting the bus taxi,
and we head back to Puno.
Just a minute, two
minutes down the road,
I'm daydreaming out
the side of the van--
the taxi bus thing,
and I see this hill.
And I'm looking at it, and
all I can hear in my head is,
come to me, come
to me, come to me.
So I ask them to stop the bus
and I walked up this hill.
I said, I won't be long.
Well, I was over an hour
because of what happened.
I got to the top of this hill,
and there was kind of stones
there all around, and I
walked in the middle of them.
And what happened to me in
the newsagent's shop started
to happen again, only
enormously magnified.
First of all, I started
to feel like magnets
were pulling my feet down,
I thought I recognized that.
And then I felt like a drill
going in the top of my head
and down through my
feet and another--
what was obviously a flow of
energy coming the other way
and out the top of my head.
And again, not a voice, but
a very strong thought form
went through my
head, which said,
it will be over when
you feel the rain.
Now I'm looking at a clear blue
Peruvian sky and a piercing
hot sun.
There's not a cloud to be seen.
It will be over when
you feel the rain.
So you think you're
going crazy, right?
So then this energy starts
to get more and more powerful
going through my
body, and then my arms
go out at an angle
like that, which I made
no conscious decision to do.
Just went like that.
And this energy got
stronger and stronger
and stronger-- my
arms stayed like that
for the best part of an hour.
And it was fine.
When it was over it
wasn't, but it was fine,
I didn't feel what you
would normally feel.
And this energy got more
and more and more powerful.
And I'm starting to shake.
And then I notice that on
the distant mountains--
over the distant mountains,
there was a light-gray mist,
and it very quickly got darker.
And I thought, it's raining.
And what then happened,
if you put it in a movie,
they'd say, oh, come on.
Don't be daft, far-fetched--
that is when it happened.
Over the next very short
time, this enormous rainstorm
came out of those mountains
and across the land towards me.
You know weather people talk
about a front coming across.
Well, this was like a straight
line of rain coming towards me.
I've described it as
like drawing curtains
across the sky.
And it's coming towards
me in stair-rod fashion.
And by now, I can hardly
stand with this energy.
And then the rain hit me.
It soaked me immediately,
it was so fierce.
And suddenly the energy stopped.
It will be over when
you feel the rain.
And my legs will like Bambi.
My shoulders are
now agony having
been like that all that time.
And something very
profound had happened,
I didn't know what then.
And I had crystal, a quartz
crystal, which I put in my hand
when I got back
down to the vehicle
to try to get this energy
that was pouring out my hands.
I was pouring out of my feet--
I couldn't sleep that
night because of the energy
coming out of me feet.
So then I come home to
Britain, and this book
that I wrote, "Truth
Vibrations," is coming out,
and there's a lot
of interest in it
because it was starting to seep
out into the mainstream media
that you know that Icke guy
who presented for the BBC,
he's gone a bit strange.
And I got invited onto
a television program,
totally primetime BBC program
called "The Terry Wogan Show--"
it was a chat show.
And what had happened to me
after that experience in Peru
is that if you live
your life in a bubble,
say a bubble of reality,
a bubble of sense
of the possible, and you
get along with your life
in the ol' bubble, and there's
someone comes along and pops
it--
doesn't tell you, doesn't
give you any warning,
just goes pop,
what happened was,
after that experience in
Peru, concepts, information,
insights were pouring
into my conscious mind.
And it was like pressing too
many keys on the computer-- you
try to process too
much information
through the computer, and the
computer says, I'm freezing.
Can't do this.
Well that was me.
For three months, if you'd
have asked me my name,
I would've checked.
Asked me where I was,
Is this planet Earth?
It didn't seem like it anymore.
And in the middle of this, I
went on "The Terry Wogan Show"
on live television primetime.
And what happened on that
show, which you could see it
on the internet, led
me to then experience
what can only be described as
historic levels of ridicule.
I could not walk down
any street in Britain
without being laughed at.
I lived my life to the sound
of distant laughter, sometimes
in-your-face laughter.
A comedian only
had to say my name.
Didn't need a joke--
I was the joke--
to get laughter.
And you would think that
that was going to destroy me,
but it didn't.
It made me.
Because there are other forces
at work if we only let them in,
and they know what's coming.
They can see the river
from source to sea,
you can see the next
turn on the river.
And that force knows--
and it's part of us--
what is necessary
for what's coming.
And if you look at my life
and what I've written and what
I've talked about, one thing
was absolutely essential
in my personality make-up
for me to do that--
no longer having the fear
of what other people think.
Because if I'd have
feared, what other people
would say about what
I was going to say
and what I was going to write,
then you almost certainly
wouldn't have written it.
But once you let go of the fear
of what other people think,
you step out of the biggest
prison that anyone can live in,
because once you fear
what other people think,
other people are now
controlling your life.
And what that mass ridicule did
for me, incredible gift it was,
although it was a nightmare
in the experiencing,
was it set me free of the fear
of what other people think
and say about me.
I've used this phrase
in the books sometimes.
Life so often gives you your
greatest gift brilliantly
disguised as your worst
nightmare, and it did for me,
and I'll always be
grateful for it.
And from that time, I've gone
on following the synchronicity
and more and more layers
and layers of information,
which I'm going to share
with you in this series,
has been dropping in my lap.
And perhaps the other
moment, the other experience
that I'll mentioned
today happened in 2003.
By that time, I'd
reached the point
where I was saying to
myself and saying to others,
if I'm going to move on
and really understand what
this reality is, I need to--
I need to get out there
and observe it and see it.
Not in some dream where
you wake up and you think,
well was that real
or was that a dream?
But actually consciously
experience it.
At that time,
synchronicity again,
I was invited to go to
the rainforest in Brazil
and partake of something
called ayahuasca,
which is illegal in many--
in various countries,
but is legal--
or was then, anyway,
it might still be--
in Brazil if it's done in a
Brazilian religious setting,
which this one was.
So I go along, and I
take it on two nights.
And basically, obviously,
it's a psychoactive drug
from a rainforest plant.
It tastes a bit like licorice.
And I took it on the
first night and I
had an experience for about
two hours, which was amazing,
but the second night was
a voice kicked in as clear
as mine is now.
A female voice, it
took a female form.
And the voice gave
me chapter and verse
for five hours on the illusory
nature of physical reality.
How this reality that we
experience as physical,
solid, material, is
actually complete illusion--
and I am going to go
into this information.
And I started looking
at what mainstream
science in its various
disciplines had discovered,
not least quantum
physics, and I realized
that if only these disciplines
would put their dots together,
and instead of competing
with each other for funding
and prestige, these
different disciplines,
they actually saw the unity that
was there, if only they would
look, they'd already established
that this so-called physical
world is an illusion, which
can be very simply explained,
and I will as this
series unfolds.
And since then, with that
incredible fundamental
foundation understanding
that this reality is not
how we experience
it, it's not what
we think it is,
it's not what we're
told it is, suddenly the
paranormal ceased to be para.
Because all these
happenings, these
phenomena that human
normal can't explain--
and if you can't explain it, it
can't be happening, so it goes,
isn't it?
That's not possible.
Why isn't it possible?
Well, because human
normal can't explain it,
so it can't be happening.
Well when you realize
the true nature of what
we perceive and experience--
I have to laugh, it is
quite funny, really,
as physical reality.
You realize that paranormal
is not only the real normal,
but allows all these
phenomena that human normal
can't explain to be perfectly
logically explainable.
And that's where we're going
in the rest of this series.
And since then, right
up to present day,
the synchronicity has continued,
and the places that it
has taken me, the information
that it has brought to me
has been way outside
of human normal,
and therefore, I've
got lots of abuse,
I've got lots of ridicule,
but because of my experience
with historic levels
of abuse and ridicule,
thanks to the "Wogan
Show" and the aftermath,
never once considered,
should I put this out?
Because I know I'll get back.
Once you realize that the
true nature of the "I"
is simply awareness, a state of
being aware, and that awareness
is on an infinite, eternal--
not even a journey,
an experience.
An infinite, eternal experience
of exploring forever forever.
So you don't have to be
a member of the herd,
you can go your own unique way,
that's what we supposed to be.
We are points of attention
within an infinite flow
of consciousness, but we are
unique points of attention.
Expressing,
celebrating uniqueness
is to celebrate that we
are an expression of all
that is, has been,
and ever can be,
and people hear that phrase.
All that is, has
been, and ever can be?
That's impossible.
But it's not.
Because what is it
actually saying?
It's saying we are
all possibility,
and within all
possibility, you must
be all that is, has
been, and ever can be.
The realization of the
true "I" as opposed to the,
"this is what you
are I" transforms
life from an existence
into an adventure.
Of the next 12 programs
that follows this one,
I'm going to be
exploring these things
in more detail and these
elements in more detail,
and putting some substance
on top of the concepts.
And it's going to put human
life, world events, reality
itself in a completely
different light.
I hope you'll join me.
See you next time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]